# Subroutines #

This part of the assignment deals with the implemetation of grovers algorithms for quantum computing. Grovers algorithms are used to search through unsorted databases or solve an unknown function (black-box function) faster than any classical computer.When comparing a program that uses grovers algorithm to a classical computer, the grovers search will produce an output in O(2^N/2), whereas a classical solution will produce an output in time  O(2^N), where N is the number of qubits. This shows a quadratic speedup when grovers algorithms are used. 

The basic steps to implementing this algorithm is to initialise the system, perform a boolean oracle, amplify the amplitude, repeat the steps and output the measurement. The system is initialised to a superposition of all possible inputs. The system is then put through a function that will invert all the qubit inputs using X-gates and generalised using a toffoli gate. An x-gate is the quantum version of a NOT gate which simply switches the input values from |1> to |0> and vice versa. A toffoli gate is another form of NOT gate which requires a three qubit input. This gate will flip the third qubit input if the first two inputs are |1>, otherwise the inputs are left unchanged. The final result of the qubits are these gates are implemented is called the ancilla qubit result. Once performed the input qubits will be reset. This process is the boolean oracle function. Grovers algorithm is a varient of this process.

Grovers algorithm wont ouput an ancilla qubit result but will instead return the value 1 by changing the sign of the the contents of the small cube inputs. This is also called a phase change. If a 0 value is output, no sign change has been made. This process can also be called a phase oracle. To produce the sign change, aHaadmard gate must be applied to the qubit before and after a toffoli gate. A Z-gate is another way of describing the use of the Haadmard and toffoli gates. When using a Z-gate, the probability of the qubit wont change, only the phase of the qubit will. The z-gate will rotate the qubit aroung the z axis by 180 degrees. Due to the symmetry of the z-gate, the order of the qubits is not important. The function that performs these steps is called zero_phaseOracle.

The black box function being investigates must also be expressed as a phase oracle, implementing a sign change only for solutions to the function. This is similar to the previous function described, however, only qubits with value of 1 will be negated. The procedure should negate the input weights for six qubits if the input is 111101, otherwise the eights will stay the same.To perform this for a 7 qubit input, an x-gate must be used before and after the z-gate. This function is called sample_phaseOracle.

# Main Loop # 


